---
date: 2024-05-24
title: Global usings
topics:
  - .net
  - csharp
  - editing
  - refactoring
  - resharper
  - rider
author: rachelappel
subtitle: Organize `using` statements so they're out of your way.
seealso:
  - title: Global usings reference
    href: "https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rider/Refactorings__Extract_Global_Using.html"
  - title: Global Usings – A Look at New Language Features in C# 10
    href: "https://blog.jetbrains.com/dotnet/2021/11/18/global-usings-in-csharp-10/"
  - title: Undo - Convert to Non-Global Using refactoring
    href: "https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rider/Refactorings__Inline_Global_Using.html"
thumbnail: ./thumbnail.png
animatedGif:
  file: ./tip.webm
  width: 583
  height: 540
---

Global usings are designed to minimize boilerplate code and enhance readability in your application.

## Global usings

More often than not, developers find themselves using the same namespaces such as `System.Linq`, `System.Collections.Generic`, and `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection` repetitively across `.cs` files.
Every new class file you create begins with an almost identical few lines of `using` declarations.
But with global using directives, we can now consolidate these common namespaces in a single file. This results in a cleaner, consistent, and more organized codebase.

Global usings are available in C# 10 and later, and can be configured in the `.csprog` file by settings the `ImplicitUsings` flag, like so:

`<ImplicitUsings>enable</ImplicitUsings>`

When `ImplicitUsings` is set, the compiler creates a file `GlobalUsings.g.cs` in the `\obj\Debug\net8.0\` folder.
You can choose which namespaces you'd like to include by modifying the `.csproj` file and adding them under an `ItemGroup`.

```xml
<ItemGroup>
    <Using Include="MyProject.Namespace"/>
</ItemGroup>
```

The `GlobalUsings.g.cs` file looks like the following:

```csharp
// <auto-generated/>
global using global::System;
global using global::System.Collections.Generic;
global using global::System.IO;
global using global::System.Linq;
global using global::System.Net.Http;
global using global::System.Threading;
global using global::System.Threading.Tasks;
```

Notice the syntax `global using global::`. This is so the compiler can figure things out so there are no namespace clashes, and only the specific namespaces listed are included (but not their sub-namespaces).

## Refactor to use Global usings

In Rider, to refactor to use global usings, click on the light bulb 💡 or press <kbd>Alt+Enter</kbd> on the `using` statement. **Choose Convert to global using**
Rider presents a dialog where you can choose which namespaces to move. Select the ones you want and click **Next** This refactoring removes all using statements that are to be converted to a global using from their original files.

This refactoring converts those repeated `using` directives for into a single `global using` directive in the `GlobalUsings.cs` file (or the name you choose).
The `GlobalUsings.cs` file should look similar to the following, but with your namespaces you're using:

```csharp
// Global using directives
global using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
global using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
global using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
```

Global usings also support static usings and using aliases. Ultimately, the global using feature in C# helps trim down code, making it more readable and maintainable.
